final-project-brief.md, before:

# Final Project Design

Your final project should consist of a detailed design for a data-driven project, which takes into consideration questions about context, relationship and positionality that we have been discussing in this course. Your data source must be locally situated to at least one team member's local context or social position.

***This document will be updated week by week as the course progresses.***

**For Tuesday, February 16:** You and your partner will deliver an initial proposal for your project (approximately 300-500 words in length). You must address the following questions:
- What is the project?
- Where is the data coming from?
- What is the reasoning for using the data you are using, in the way you are using it?
- What are the specific ethical considerations for this project?

These proposals will be submitted in [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lyy198Frc8NpME4o39WbpE13pHUuELz9?usp=sharing).

**For Tuesday, February 23:** You and your partner will deliver a sample of the data source you are planning on using. ***Do not “clean” or alter this data in any way.***

This data source does not have to be extensive or encompass the full scope of your project design, but it does have to give us some sense of the categories and values you will be using as the foundation of the project.

You will submit this sample to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Olc9mmGDtbLhJtMejKt1S2tGVIdb1OnV?usp=sharing), as well as work with it in class, so please make sure that all members of the team are equipped with a copy.

**For Tuesday, March 2:** Using the JSON file developed out of your sample dataset during class, you and your partner will make some basic, initial explorations of the data using JavaScript. I have [provided a very simple example](https://github.com/rouxpz/local-data/tree/main/code%20examples) of loading and mapping data in d3.js and in p5.js. Feel free to use these as starting points, or to start your own explorations from scratch.

You can find tutorials in getting started with exploring data [in d3.js here](https://github.com/d3/d3/wiki/Tutorials), and [in p5.js here](https://p5js.org/examples/advanced-data-load-saved-json.html). Don't stress out too much about this assignment, though—the key word here is *basic*. I'm not interested in how fancy your visualization is; I'm instead interested in seeing the decisions made to classify and categorize, and the types of mappings that make sense to you for your dataset. We'll go over more visualization strategies, and have some time in class for you to add to your visualizations, in class on March 2.

Rather than a separate written assignment, please comment your HTML/JS files and provide a few sentences about your decision making process. This doesn't have to be extensive, and can be done piecemeal as the code progresses (so, for example, if you create a variable, you can provide a few words about why you decided to create that variable and what it represents in the visualization).

You will submit this assignment to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1eqQ2vdmGsUf6ZsSUF7ipsYlbN5PSE-wo?usp=sharing). Please make sure you are including all elements in your submission so I can run this on my laptop: the HTML file, and any JavaScript files or libraries attached. If you'd prefer to upload your assignment to a domain and send me the link to find it there, that works as well as long as I am able to access all the files you're using in the assignment.

**For Friday, March 19:** Your final project design is due. This must be submitted as a single document, containing the following sections:

##### I. INTRODUCTION

What is the project you are proposing? What data does it work with, and what is the goal of the analysis?

##### II. CONTEXT

This is the meat of the project design, and what I will be spending the most time reading. Here you will establish the context for the project, including the context in which the data was collected, and in which you are approaching the work. Each member of the team is required to discuss their own relationship to the project and data collection, and discuss the ways in which this informs the final design for the project.

##### III. PROOF OF CONCEPT

Documentation of your project in some prototype form. This does not have to be extensive or elaborate, but it *does* have to show the essential principles and aims of your project as functioning, and point to the potential for a more realized form.

##### IV. PROCESS

This section will detail the process by which you and your partner arrived at the specifics of this design. Here I am interested in trial and error—the things you attempted but failed, and the things you didn't think would work but did. I also would like to see your decision making process outlined—why are you making the choices you are making? What other possibilities are there, and why did you determine that they won't work?

##### V. CONCLUSION & NEXT STEPS

What have you found in these first steps you have taken? What are your immediate next steps? What, if any, changes will you be making to the project design based on what you have found from your initial explorations?

This document will be submitted to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a2KI8B9UE9MT1zxdw8bRFoXqPT_AaTxD?usp=sharing). **Proposal designs are due by 5pm Eastern time on Friday, March 19.**

In addition, each team will prepare a short presentation on their project design for the final day of class (Tuesday, March 16). This presentation should go over each section of the proposal, and discuss the work you have done and next steps you envision. Slides/visuals are not required, but highly encouraged. Each group will have 20 minutes total, allowing for a presentation of ~10 minutes, and 10 minutes of feedback from the group.

Commit message:

updated word counts and hong chapter

final-project-brief.md, after:

# Final Project Design

Your final project should consist of a detailed design for a data-driven project, which takes into consideration questions about context, relationship and positionality that we have been discussing in this course. Your data source must be locally situated to at least one team member's local context or social position.

***This document will be updated week by week as the course progresses.***

**For Tuesday, February 16:** You and your partner will deliver an initial proposal for your project (approximately 300-500 words in length). You must address the following questions:
- What is the project?
- Where is the data coming from?
- What is the reasoning for using the data you are using, in the way you are using it?
- What are the specific ethical considerations for this project?

These proposals will be submitted in [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lyy198Frc8NpME4o39WbpE13pHUuELz9?usp=sharing).

**For Tuesday, February 23:** You and your partner will deliver a sample of the data source you are planning on using. ***Do not “clean” or alter this data in any way.***

This data source does not have to be extensive or encompass the full scope of your project design, but it does have to give us some sense of the categories and values you will be using as the foundation of the project.

You will submit this sample to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Olc9mmGDtbLhJtMejKt1S2tGVIdb1OnV?usp=sharing), as well as work with it in class, so please make sure that all members of the team are equipped with a copy.

**For Tuesday, March 2:** Using the JSON file developed out of your sample dataset during class, you and your partner will make some basic, initial explorations of the data using JavaScript. I have [provided a very simple example](https://github.com/rouxpz/local-data/tree/main/code%20examples) of loading and mapping data in d3.js and in p5.js. Feel free to use these as starting points, or to start your own explorations from scratch.

You can find tutorials in getting started with exploring data [in d3.js here](https://github.com/d3/d3/wiki/Tutorials), and [in p5.js here](https://p5js.org/examples/advanced-data-load-saved-json.html). Don't stress out too much about this assignment, though—the key word here is *basic*. I'm not interested in how fancy your visualization is; I'm instead interested in seeing the decisions made to classify and categorize, and the types of mappings that make sense to you for your dataset. We'll go over more visualization strategies, and have some time in class for you to add to your visualizations, in class on March 2.

Rather than a separate written assignment, please comment your HTML/JS files and provide a few sentences about your decision making process. This doesn't have to be extensive, and can be done piecemeal as the code progresses (so, for example, if you create a variable, you can provide a few words about why you decided to create that variable and what it represents in the visualization).

You will submit this assignment to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1eqQ2vdmGsUf6ZsSUF7ipsYlbN5PSE-wo?usp=sharing). Please make sure you are including all elements in your submission so I can run this on my laptop: the HTML file, and any JavaScript files or libraries attached. If you'd prefer to upload your assignment to a domain and send me the link to find it there, that works as well as long as I am able to access all the files you're using in the assignment.

**For Friday, March 19:** Your final project design is due. This must be submitted as a single document, containing the following sections *(word counts are loose guidelines and will not be counted strictly as long as the section does what it is supposed to)*:

##### I. INTRODUCTION (300-500 words)

What is the project you are proposing? What data does it work with, and what is the goal of the analysis?

##### II. CONTEXT (600-800 words)

This is the meat of the project design, and what I will be spending the most time reading. Here you will establish the context for the project, including the context in which the data was collected, and in which you are approaching the work. Each member of the team is required to discuss their own relationship to the project and data collection, and discuss the ways in which this informs the final design for the project.

##### III. PROOF OF CONCEPT (400-600 words)

Documentation of your project in some prototype form. This does not have to be extensive or elaborate, but it *does* have to show the essential principles and aims of your project as functioning, and point to the potential for a more realized form.

##### IV. PROCESS (400-600 words)

This section will detail the process by which you and your partner arrived at the specifics of this design. Here I am interested in trial and error—the things you attempted but failed, and the things you didn't think would work but did. I also would like to see your decision making process outlined—why are you making the choices you are making? What other possibilities are there, and why did you determine that they won't work?

##### V. CONCLUSION & NEXT STEPS (300-500 words)

What have you found in these first steps you have taken? What are your immediate next steps? What, if any, changes will you be making to the project design based on what you have found from your initial explorations?

This document will be submitted to [the Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a2KI8B9UE9MT1zxdw8bRFoXqPT_AaTxD?usp=sharing). **Proposal designs are due by 5pm Eastern time on Friday, March 19.**

In addition, each team will prepare a short presentation on their project design for the final day of class (Tuesday, March 16). This presentation should go over each section of the proposal, and discuss the work you have done and next steps you envision. Slides/visuals are not required, but highly encouraged. Each group will have 20 minutes total, allowing for a presentation of ~10 minutes, and 10 minutes of feedback from the group.
